SystemLink Enterprise Release Notes for 2024-10 (#224)
ni/install-systemlink-enterprise: release-notes/2024-10/README.md

# SystemLink Enterprise release 2024-10 Release Notes

The 2024-10 release for SystemLink Enterprise has been published to <https://downloads.artifacts.ni.com>. This update includes new features, bug fixes, and security updates. Work with your account representative to obtain credentials to access these artifacts. If you are not upgrading from the previous release, refer to past release notes to ensure you have addressed all required configuration changes.

## Upgrading from the release 2024-09 to the release 2024-10

<!-- Optional section to include comments and instructions needed to successfully upgrade from the previous release to the current release. If the only changes needed are already captured in Helm Chart Breaking Changes, this section is not needed. -->

## New Features and Behavior changes

> - Privileges and roles changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Changes to privileges and roles
```

>     - "Routines" service role was added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Added "Routines" service role.
```

>     - "Routine Maintainer" role was added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Added "Routine Maintainer" role.
```

>     - Routines "Enable" and "Disable" privileges were added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Added "Enable" and "Disable" privileges to routines.
```

>     - "Cancel notebook execution" privilege was added. This isn't currently being enforced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Added "Cancel notebook execution" privilege. This privilege is not currently enforced.
```

>     - Routine "Modify metadata" privilege was renamed to "Modify routines"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Renamed the "Modify metadata" routine privilege to "Modify routines."
```

>     - "Notebook Execution" privilege category was renamed to "Scripts" to match the application rename

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Renamed the "Notebook Execution" privilege category to "Scripts" to match the application rename.
```

Reviewer 2: Incorporating this suggestion.

> - As a result of the privilege changes above, non-admin users that could previously perform operations on Routines may not be able to any longer. These users should either be applied the "Routine Maintainer" role or have a new role created that grants Routine privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As a result of the privilege changes above, non-admin users that could previously perform operations on routines may not be able to any longer. Apply the "Routine Maintainer" role to these users or create a new role that grants routine privileges.
```

Reviewer 2: Adjusted wording and capitalization based on recommendation.

> - Routines must now be disabled in order to be updated unless the user has all of enable, disable, and modify privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users must disable routines to update them unless they have has all of enable, disable, and modify privileges.
```

Reviewer 2: Updated wording to align with suggestions.

- testmonitorservice
    - Ugpraded EF Core from 6.0 to 8.0, because the support for EF 6.0 ends on Nov 12, 2024.
- userservice
    - Enabled CORS for DELETE `niauth/v1/session-keys/self` route.
- Service Registry & user service

>     - Created new actions for Artifact upload, download & update routes. Used in execution & dataspace privilege definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Created new actions for artifact upload, download, and update routes. Used in execution & dataspace privilege definition
```
I don't understand this one. In the second sentence, what is used? The new actions?

Reviewer 2: This capability doesn't actually appear to be shipping in this release. I have removed references to it.

>         - Updated data maintainer to have all artifact privileges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Updated data maintainer to have all artifact privileges.
```

>         - Updated system maintainer to have artifact query privilege

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Updated system maintainer to have artifact query privilege.
```

>         - Update collaborator to have artifact query privilege

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Update collaborator to have artifact query privilege.
```

- Notebook service - artifacts

>     - Updated APIs(Create, Download & Update artifacts) to use new artifact actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Updated APIs (Create, Download & Update artifacts) to use new artifact actions.
```
Is the "&" part of the API name? If not, please use "and"

- Notebook execution service

>     - Introduced new privilege for specifying resource profile: `notebookexecution:SpecifyResourceProfile`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Introduced new privilege for specifying a resource profile: `notebookexecution:SpecifyResourceProfile`
```

<!-- This file should be renamed to README.md and placed in the directory for the release. -->

# SystemLink Enterprise release 2024-10 Release Notes

The 2024-10 release for SystemLink Enterprise has been published to <https://downloads.artifacts.ni.com>. This update includes new features, bug fixes, and security updates. Work with your account representative to obtain credentials to access these artifacts. If you are not upgrading from the previous release, refer to past release notes to ensure you have addressed all required configuration changes.

## Upgrading from the release 2024-09 to the release 2024-10

<!-- Optional section to include comments and instructions needed to successfully upgrade from the previous release to the current release. If the only changes needed are already captured in Helm Chart Breaking Changes, this section is not needed. -->

> ## New Features and Behavior changes

Reviewer 3: @prestwick , the squads have not documented any Helm Chart Breaking Changes (we can remove that section),
and they had only documented New Features and Behavior Changes.
Here's the doc:
- [SLE 2024-10_Helm Chart Breaking Changes, Software Behavior Changes (including Privileges) for the Release Notes - out of September 2024.xlsx](https://nio365.sharepoint.com/:x:/s/ASWSystemLink/EXyFu9bNxqRCkAhWLAmogbQB4Nea-guya7p_zvz-h6D02Q?e=TiL4Pa)

- Privileges and roles changes
    - "Routines" service role was added
    - "Routine Maintainer" role was added
    - Routines "Enable" and "Disable" privileges were added
    - "Cancel notebook execution" privilege was added. This isn't currently being enforced.
    - Routine "Modify metadata" privilege was renamed to "Modify routines"
    - "Notebook Execution" privilege category was renamed to "Scripts" to match the application rename
- As a result of the privilege changes above, non-admin users that could previously perform operations on Routines may not be able to any longer. These users should either be applied the "Routine Maintainer" role or have a new role created that grants Routine privileges.
- Routines must now be disabled in order to be updated unless the user has all of enable, disable, and modify privileges.

> - testmonitorservice

Reviewer 3: @prestwick FYI, that this documentation is linked to this AzDO PR:
- [Pull Request 802072](https://dev.azure.com/ni/DevCentral/_git/Skyline/pullrequest/802072): TestMonitor | Upgrade EF Core to 8.0

    - Ugpraded EF Core from 6.0 to 8.0, because the support for EF 6.0 ends on Nov 12, 2024.

> - userservice

Reviewer 3: @prestwick FYI that this documentation is linked to this AzDO PR:
- [Pull Request 799320](https://dev.azure.com/ni/DevCentral/_git/Skyline/pullrequest/799320): User Service | Enable CORS for delete session key endpoint

    - Enabled CORS for DELETE `niauth/v1/session-keys/self` route.
- Service Registry & user service
    - Created new actions for Artifact upload, download & update routes. Used in execution & dataspace privilege definition
        - Updated data maintainer to have all artifact privileges
        - Updated system maintainer to have artifact query privilege
        - Update collaborator to have artifact query privilege

> - Notebook service - artifacts

Reviewer 3: @prestwick FYI that this documentation is linked to this AzDO PR:
- [Pull Request 789371](https://dev.azure.com/ni/DevCentral/_git/Skyline/pullrequest/789371): NbExec | Artifacts | Update Authorization Actions
